263 2.1.1 A worked Service Oriented Architecture example
264 An electric utility has the capacity to generate and distribute electricity (the underlying capability).
265 The wiring from the electric company’s distribution grid (the service) provides the means to supply
266 electricity to support typical usage for a residential consumer’s house (service functionality), and
267 a consumer accesses electricity generated (the output of invoking the service) via a wall outlet
268 (service interface). In order to use the electricity, a consumer needs to understand what type of
269 plug to use, what is the voltage of the supply, and possible limits to the load; the utility presumes
270 that the customer will only connect devices that are compatible with the voltage provided and load
271 supported; and the consumer in turn assumes that compatible consumer devices can be
272 connected without damage or harm (service technical assumptions).
273 A residential or business user will need to open an account with the utility in order to use the
274 supply (service constraint) and the utility will meter usage and expects the consumer to pay for
275 use at the rate prescribed (service policy). When the consumer and utility agree on constraints
276 and polices (service contract), the consumer can receive electricity using the service as long as
277 the electricity distribution grid and house connection remain intact (e.g. a storm knocking down
278 power lines would disrupt distribution) and the consumer can have payment sent (e.g. a check by
279 mail or electronic funds transfer) to the utility (reachability).
280 Another person (for example, a visitor to someone else's house) may use a contracted supply
281 without any relationship with the utility or any requirement to also satisfy the initial service
282 constraint (i.e. reachability only requires intact electricity distribution) but would nonetheless be
283 expected to be compatible with the service interface.
284 In certain situations (for example, excessive demand), a utility may limit supply or institute rolling
285 blackouts (service policy). A consumer might lodge a formal complaint if this occurred frequently
286 (consumer's implied policy).
287 If the utility required every device to be hardwired to its equipment, the underlying capability
288 would still be there but this would be a very different service and have a very different service interface.